Clerk Elements (Beta) - Initial docs (#890)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/elements/guides/styling.mdx

---

> description: Learn how to bring your own styling when building with Clerk Elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to style Clerk Elements.
```

---

# Styling

> Clerk Elements has been built to give you complete control over styling the rendered markup. Any Clerk Elements component that renders markup accepts a `className` prop, and an `asChild` prop is also exposed to change the rendered element entirely. To understand how this is done in practice, let's walk through a few different styling approaches. Use this basic sign-in flow as a starting point:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can style Clerk Elements components with the following props:

- `className` – Can be used on any Clerk Elements component that renders markup.
- `asChild` – Can be used to change the rendered element entirely.

This guide will demonstrate a build basic sign-in flow that will teach you how to use these props with a few different styling approaches.
```

More direct, easier to read (also we don't describe Clerk as "we" in the docs)

```tsx filename="/app/sign-in/[[...sign-in]]/page.tsx"
import * as Clerk from '@clerk/elements/common'
import * as SignIn from '@clerk/elements/sign-in'

export default function SignInPage() {
  return (
    <SignIn.Root>
      <SignIn.Step name="start">
        <Clerk.Connection name="google">Sign in with Google</Clerk.Connection>
        <Clerk.Field name="identifier">
          <Clerk.Label>Email</Clerk.Label>
          <Clerk.Input />
          <Clerk.FieldError />
        </Clerk.Field>
        <SignIn.Action submit>Continue</SignIn.Action>
      </SignIn.Step>
      <SignIn.Step name="verifications">
        <SignIn.Strategy name="email_code">
          <Clerk.Field name="code">
            <Clerk.Label>Code</Clerk.Label>
            <Clerk.Input />
            <Clerk.FieldError />
          </Clerk.Field>
          <SignIn.Action submit>Verify</SignIn.Action>
        </SignIn.Strategy>
      </SignIn.Step>
    </SignIn.Root>
  )
}
```

## Styling approaches

> ### Tailwind CSS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tailwind CSS
```
H3 -> H2 because we're dropping the empty heading above

> If you're already using Tailwind CSS, there is no additional setup required! Classes from Tailwind can be applied to most Clerk Elements components, rely on your editor's IntelliSense to see if `className` is a valid prop on a component you want to style.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are already using Tailwind CSS, there is no additional setup required! Classes from Tailwind can be applied to most Clerk Elements components, rely on your editor's IntelliSense to see if `className` is a valid prop on a component you want to style.
```

      >
        <div className="grid grid-cols-2 gap-x-4">
          <Clerk.Connection
            name="google"
            className="flex items-center gap-x-3 justify-center font-medium border shadow-sm py-1.5 px-2.5 rounded-md"
          >
            <Clerk.Icon className="size-4" />
            Google
          </Clerk.Connection>
          <Clerk.Connection
            name="github"
            className="flex items-center gap-x-3 justify-center font-medium border shadow-sm py-1.5 px-2.5 rounded-md"
          >
            <Clerk.Icon className="size-4" />
            GitHub
          </Clerk.Connection>
        </div>
        <Clerk.Field name="identifier" className="space-y-2">
          <Clerk.Label className="text-sm font-medium">Email</Clerk.Label>
          <Clerk.Input className="w-full border rounded-md py-1.5 px-2.5" />
          <Clerk.FieldError className="block text-red-500 text-sm" />
        </Clerk.Field>
        <SignIn.Action
          submit
          className="bg-black text-white rounded-md py-1.5 px-2.5"
        >
          Continue
        </SignIn.Action>
      </SignIn.Step>
    </SignIn.Root>
  )
}
```

> ### With existing components via `asChild`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## With existing components via `asChild`
```

> Many of the Clerk Elements components accept an `asChild` prop that allows you to swap out the rendered element. This is useful if you have an existing design system or component library that you wish to use along with Clerk Elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many of the Clerk Elements components accept an `asChild` prop that allows you to swap out the rendered element. This is useful if you have an existing design system or component library that you wish to use with Clerk Elements.
```

      <SignIn.Step name="start">
        <Clerk.Connection name="google" asChild>
          <Button>Sign in with Google</Button>
        </Clerk.Connection>
        <Clerk.Field name="identifier">
          <Clerk.Label>Email</Clerk.Label>
          <Clerk.Input asChild>
            <Input />
          </Clerk.Input>
          <Clerk.FieldError />
        </Clerk.Field>
        <SignIn.Action submit asChild>
          <Button>Continue</Button>
        </SignIn.Action>
      </SignIn.Step>
      <SignIn.Step name="verifications">
        <SignIn.Strategy name="email_code">
          <Clerk.Field name="code">
            <Clerk.Label>Code</Clerk.Label>
            <Clerk.Input asChild>
              <Input />
            </Clerk.Input>
            <Clerk.FieldError />
          </Clerk.Field>
          <SignIn.Action submit asChild>
            <Button>Continue</Button>
          </SignIn.Action>
        </SignIn.Strategy>
      </SignIn.Step>
    </SignIn.Root>
  )
}
```

Notice how the Clerk Elements components are wrapping the rendered `<Input>` and `<Button>` when `asChild` is used. This ensures the underlying event handlers and necessary props are passed along automatically.

> <Callout type="info">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure your components for `asChild`
```

> When using the `asChild` prop, you must ensure that the component is open for extension. Meaning: Your component must spread the incoming props and forward the ref to the underlying element. Here's an example of how you might implement a custom `<Input />` component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the `asChild` prop, your component must spread its incoming props and return [`forwardRef()`](https://react.dev/reference/react/forwardRef). Here's an example of how you might implement a custom `<Input />` component:
```

```tsx
import { forwardRef } from 'react'

const CustomInput = forwardRef(function CustomInput(props, forwardedRef) {
  return <input ref={forwardedRef} {...props} className="custom-class" />
})
```

> </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Not necessary with above suggestion

> ### CSS Modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## CSS Modules
```

> Classes from an imported CSS module can be applied to most Clerk Elements components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Classes from an imported CSS module can be applied to most Clerk Elements components with `className`.
```

import * as SignIn from '@clerk/elements/sign-in'
import styles from './sign-in.module.css'

export default function SignInPage() {
  return (
    <SignIn.Root>
      <SignIn.Step name="start" className={styles.startStep}>
        <Clerk.Connection name="google" className={styles.provider}>Sign in with Google</Clerk.Connection>
        <Clerk.Field name="identifier">
          <Clerk.Label className={styles.label}>Email</Clerk.Label>
          <Clerk.Input className={styles.input} />
          <Clerk.FieldError className={styles.error} />
        </Clerk.Field>
        <SignIn.Action submit className={styles.submit}>Continue</SignIn.Action>
      </SignIn.Step>
      <SignIn.Step name="verifications" className={styles.verificationsStep}>
        <SignIn.Strategy name="email_code">
          <Clerk.Field name="code">
            <Clerk.Label className={styles.label}>Code</Clerk.Label>
            <Clerk.Input className={styles.input} />
            <Clerk.FieldError className={styles.error} />
          </Clerk.Field>
          <SignIn.Action submit className={styles.submit}>Verify</SignIn.Action>
      </SignIn.Step>
    </SignIn.Root>
  )
}
```

### Inline styles

> Just like native HTML elements, you can also use inline styles to style Clerk Elements. This is useful when you need to apply styles conditionally or when you want to avoid creating a separate CSS file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use inline styles with Clerk Elements. This is useful when you need to apply styles conditionally or  avoid creating a separate CSS file.
```

import * as Clerk from '@clerk/elements/common'
import * as SignIn from '@clerk/elements/sign-in'

export default function SignInPage() {
  return (
    <SignIn.Root>
      <SignIn.Step name="start" style={{
        backgroundColor: 'white',
        padding: '1rem',
        border: '1px solid #dddddd',
        borderRadius: '4px',
      }}>
        <Clerk.Field name="identifier">
          <Clerk.Label style={{
            color: '#dddddd',
            fontSize: '0.875rem',
          }}>Email</Clerk.Label>
          <Clerk.Input style={{
            border: '1px solid #dddddd',
            borderRadius: '4px',
            padding: '1rem',
          }} />
        </Clerk.Field>
        <SignIn.Action submit style={{
          backgroundColor: '#111111',
          color: 'white',
          padding: '1rem',
          borderRadius: '4px',
        }}>Continue</SignIn.Action>
      </SignIn.Step>
    </SignIn.Root>
  )
}
```

## State-based styling

In some cases you might want to style components based on their state. Clerk Elements exposes data attributes for this purpose, as well as components that expose the state programmatically to support more complex logic.

### Data attributes

> #### Field components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think this heading isn't totally necessary, and removing it helps us avoid an empty heading

`<Field>` and `<Input>` can be styled based on their validity state by targeting the `data-valid` or `data-invalid` attributes:

```css filename="style.css"
.input {
  --border-color: gray;
  border: 1px solid var(--border-color);

  &[data-invalid] {
    --border-color: red;
  }
}
```

```tsx filename="page.tsx"
<Clerk.Input className="input" />
```

### Function as children

If you need programmatic access to state for more complex styling, several components provide a function as children. This is useful when dealing with animations, or for conditionally rendering elements based on state.

> For example: To access a field's state, use `<FieldState>`:

Reviewer: Are there other options like this? LabelState for example? Or is it just FieldState?

I ask because the text in this section make it feel like there are more options, but all I could find in the PR after a quick look was `FieldState`

Reviewer 3: It's just `<FieldState>`. So you can use `<FieldState>` to access the state of a `<Field>`. But `<Field>` also accepts a function as `children` which you can use to access it, too.

I think we can just remove the confusion here by not mentioning it that there are more "options"
